New Post about Flatpak and Nibbler (#12)
Cogitri/cogitri.github.io: content/posts/09-nibbler-flatpak.md

```yaml
modules:
    - name: nibbler
    buildsystem: simple
    sources:
      - type: archive
        url: https://github.com/fohristiwhirl/nibbler/releases/download/v1.5.7/nibbler-1.5.7-linux.zip
        sha256: f64d7fc89f5cd68b41dccff4fc7aa2f03a482750f2d7fa6af522f78d74264f4d
      - type: file
        path: org.fohristiwhirl.nibbler.desktop
        sha256: 75ce7081b35321eeeb80043483a6977babe11055ed41f3a22cc718b63fabc6fa
    build-commands:
      - |
        set -e
        install -Dm0644 org.fohristiwhirl.nibbler.desktop -t /app/share/applications
        mkdir -p /nibbler
        mv * /nibbler
        mkdir -p /app
        mv /nibbler /app
        chmod +x /app/nibbler/nibbler
```

### .desktop file

Nibbler itself has no .desktop file, so let's write one for it. One can notice that
`--no-sandbox` is passed, which is required because Flatpak doesn't allow SUID or
root-owned binaries, which are required for Electron's sandbox.

```ini
[Desktop Entry]
Name=Nibbler (Flatpak)
Comment=Leela Chess Zero (Lc0) Interface
Exec=/app/nibbler/nibbler --no-sandbox %U
Icon=Nibbler
StartupNotify=true
Terminal=false
Type=Application
Categories=Game
```

### Packaging Lc0

> Now the hardest part, packaging the Neural Network Engine itself, nn-engines are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the hardest part, packaging the Neural Network Engine itself. nn-engines are
```

composed of two components:

1. A binary which looks at a position on a chess board and uses a neural network
   to derive information from the position, such as the expected win rate for each
   side (or draw), the certainty of those win rates, and how many moves are left before
   the conclusion of the game. All that information and more is passed to Nibbler.
2. A weights file, which is a representation of a Neural Network that was trained through

>    either playing itself, observing high-level games, or both. Storing in it the useful
>    connections that allow it to evaluate a position on the chess board with great accuracy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   either playing itself, observing high-level games, or both. It contains data that allows it to evaluate a position on the chess board with great accuracy.
```

---
title: "Flatpak-ing Nibbler, a Leela Chess Zero Interface and some Neural Network Engines"
date: 2020-10-30T17:39:23-03:00
draft: false
---

> Article by editor Leo <thinkabit.ukim@gmail.com>  

> The Machine Learning terminology here is simplified and will have a loss
> quality, but not pertinent to the point.

> Nibbler is a Graphical User Interface for analysis of chess games using mainly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nibbler is a Graphical User Interface for the analysis of chess games using mainly
```

> the [Leela Chess Zero][1] chess engine (computer that plays chess and provides

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [Leela Chess Zero][1] chess engine (a computer that plays chess and provides
```

> an evaluation of positions), it is written specifically for using Leela.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an evaluation of positions). It is written specifically for using Leela.
```

It deals with Leela's output which is incompatible with traditional chess engines

> and the Chess GUIs that support the latter, that specific support allow it to

Reviewer: > It deals with Leela's output which is incompatible with traditional chess engines
and the Chess GUIs that support the latter

Sorry? Leela's output is different from what traditional chess engines output, that I get, but I'm not quite sure what you're trying to say with:

> and the Chess GUIs that support the latter

Author: Leela's output is incompatible with Chess GUIs that support the output of traditional chess engines

Reviewer: Maybe you could word this differently then? It's a bit confusing otherwise

> and the Chess GUIs that support the latter, that specific support allow it to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the Chess GUIs that support the latter. That specific support allows it to
```
Shorter sentences

make full use of Leela's output, like filtering the moves that Leela suggested
by the certainty it has that the value given to the move is correct, and sorting
the moves by the amount of moves left until a conclusion (win, draw or loss) to
the game.

Unfortunately for us it is written in Electron which makes it very hard to package

> for [musl][2] systems like [Alpine Linux][3] which I use and am a developer,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for [musl][2] systems like [Alpine Linux][3] which I use and am a developer of.
```

> fortunately there is [flatpak][4] which is a godsend for packaging heavyweight apps,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately there is [flatpak][4] which is a godsend for packaging heavyweight apps,
```

so lets go package it.

<!--more-->

## Writing the boilerplate

Lets start by writing the boilerplate we need to get started on any Flatpak app.

```yaml
app-id: org.fohristiwhirl.nibbler
runtime: org.freedesktop.Platform
runtime-version: '20.08'
branch: stable
sdk: org.freedesktop.Sdk
command: /app/nibbler/nibbler

finish-args:
  - --share=ipc # Needed for X11

>   - --socket=x11 # Electron application, needs Ozone, switch to fallback-x11 once chrome gets ozone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - --socket=x11 # Electron apps don't support Wayland (yet: https://github.com/electron/electron/issues/10915)
```

Author: Please don't lint codefences, they are taken verbatim from the repo linked at the end.

If they need to be changed open a PR against https://github.com/maxice8/nibbler-flatpak

Reviewer: Well, I'd suggest either changing that in that github repo or just adjusting it here, I doubt readers will know what Ozone is

>   - --device=dri # need access to the GPU

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - --device=dri # Required for access to the GPU
```

>   - --filesystem=xdg-data # Access to $XDG_DATA_HOME, letting the user load networks

Reviewer: > letting the user load networks

Huh, why does it need access to ~/.local/share for that?

Author: networks are files that are stored in $XDG_DATA_HOME/lc0 and XDG_DATA_HOME/lc0/networks

```

> This is very simple, and comments explain what we need every switch we need in finish-args.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Writing the module

Now lets package Nibbler itself, in this case we will use the pre-packaged Nibbler

> for Glibc x86_64 instead of dealing with compiling Electron which is extremely
> annoying on Flatpak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for Glibc x86_64 instead of compiling Electron ourselves, which is rather time intensive.
```

```yaml
modules:
    - name: nibbler
    buildsystem: simple
    sources:
      - type: archive
        url: https://github.com/fohristiwhirl/nibbler/releases/download/v1.5.7/nibbler-1.5.7-linux.zip
        sha256: f64d7fc89f5cd68b41dccff4fc7aa2f03a482750f2d7fa6af522f78d74264f4d
      - type: file
        path: org.fohristiwhirl.nibbler.desktop
        sha256: 75ce7081b35321eeeb80043483a6977babe11055ed41f3a22cc718b63fabc6fa
    build-commands:
      - |

>         set -e

Reviewer: That isn't the default? :o

Reviewer: ?

>         install -Dm0644 org.fohristiwhirl.nibbler.desktop -t /app/share/applications
>         mkdir -p /nibbler
>         mv * /nibbler
>         mkdir -p /app
>         mv /nibbler /app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        install -Dm0644 org.fohristiwhirl.nibbler.desktop -t /app/share/applications
        mkdir /app/nibbler
        mv * /app/nibbler```

Reviewer: ?

        chmod +x /app/nibbler/nibbler
```

### .desktop file

> Nibbler itself has no .desktop file, so let's write one too, one can notice that
> `--no-sandbox` is passed, that is required because Flatpak doesn't allow SUID or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nibbler itself has no .desktop file, so let's write one too. It needs to notice that
`--no-sandbox` is passed, which is required because Flatpak doesn't allow SUID or
```

> root-owned binaries, so we can't use their sandbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
root-owned binaries, which is required for Electron's sandbox.
```

```ini
[Desktop Entry]
Name=Nibbler (Flatpak)
Comment=Leela Chess Zero (Lc0) Interface
Exec=/app/nibbler/nibbler --no-sandbox %U
Icon=Nibbler
StartupNotify=true
Terminal=false
Type=Application
Categories=Game
```

### Packaging Lc0

Now the hardest part, packaging the Neural Network Engine itself, nn-engines are
composed of two components:

> 1. binary which runs and calculate chess positions, providing value output used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A binary which runs and calculates chess positions, providing value output used
```

>    by our Chess GUI, and it does so with the second component.

Reviewer: > providing value output used by our Chess GUI, and it does so with the second component.

Not sure what that is supposed to mean

Author: rewritten

2. a `weights' file, which is a collection of numbers and bytes connections that
   somehow make the binary provide good output that makes the engine very very
   strong.

> 

Reviewer: A bit more info on what that `weights` file actually does would be neat. I suppose it contains the "knowledge" of the engine that it obtained by being trained in ML fashion

Author: It is hard to simplify what a neural network weights file is when you're not trained in ML.

Try simplifying this: https://www.chessprogramming.org/Leela_Chess_Zero#Network

> Lets package them, first by the dependencies of lc0, these can be found online
> as they are used in other Flatpak-ed packages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lets package them, by starting with the dependencies of lc0. These can be found in [Flathub's repos](https://github.com/flathub)
as they are used in other Flatpak-ed packages:
```

```yaml
  - name: eigen
    buildsystem: cmake-ninja
    builddir: true
    sources:
     - type: archive
       url: https://gitlab.com/libeigen/eigen/-/archive/3.3.8/eigen-3.3.8.tar.gz
       sha256: 146a480b8ed1fb6ac7cd33fec9eb5e8f8f62c3683b3f850094d9d5c35a92419a
  - name: openblas
    no-autogen: true
    make-args:
      - DYNAMIC_ARCH=1
      - FC=gfortran
      - NO_LAPACKE=1
      - USE_OPENMP=0 # OpenMP off by default, this hack skips 'test_fork' which crashes on i386
    make-install-args:
      - PREFIX=/app
    sources:
      - type: archive
        url: https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS/archive/v0.3.12.tar.gz
        sha256: 65a7d3a4010a4e3bd5c0baa41a234797cd3a1735449a4a5902129152601dc57b
```

> And now the binary and the neural network, the latter needs to be in the same directory
> as the binary and named nn, one can specify a specific network later but lets use the
> defaults:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And now we package lc0 and the neural network it uses. The latter needs to be in the same directory
as the lc0 binary and be named nn.
```

```yaml
  - name: lc0
    buildsystem: meson
    config-opts:

>       - --buildtype=release

Reviewer: I think that's a default too (?)

Reviewer: ?

      - -Dopenblas=true
      - -Dopenblas_libdirs=/app/lib
      - -Dgtest=false
      - -Db_lto=true
      - -Dopencl=false
    sources:
      - type: git
        url: https://github.com/LeelaChessZero/lc0
        tag: v0.26.3
  - name: nn
    buildsystem: simple
    build-commands:
      - |

>         set -e

Reviewer: Same here

Reviewer: ?

        mkdir -p /app/bin
        mv nn /app/bin
    sources:
      - type: file
        dest-filename: nn
        url: https://training.lczero.org/get_network?sha=4df05b0f0e80523018c073fd151ba26d955140ba303e84cebd96e027c6e06a3e
        sha256: 821aabc4316d49a526ba737a218fb868dd7c72c5e7b1a91eb8e6c805e3503028
```

This is good enough, but let's go further.

### Packaging a NNUE Chess Engine

> There is a different Neural Network type than the one used by lc0, called

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a different Neural Network type than the one used by lc0 by default, called
```

Author: lc0 only has that Neural Network type, we wouldn't need to package a different chess engine if we could just flip a switch and use NNUE

> [Efficiently Updatable Neural Networks][5], it is much smaller and gives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Efficiently Updatable Neural Networks][5]. It is much smaller and gives
```

    build-options:
      env:
        ARCH: x86-64-bmi2
        COMP: clang
        COMPXX: clang++
    build-commands:
      - |
        # Replace their network with the one we want to use, in this case it is
        # dark horse 0.2a "Aldi"
        # Taken from: https://www.patreon.com/posts/dark-horse-0-2a-40420324
        sed -i 's|nn-2eb2e0707c2b.nnue|nn-c2fd094bce06.nnue|' src/evaluate.h
        # Move the Neural Network to src, so we don't need to download it
        mv nn-c2fd094bce06.nnue src
        # Farthest I can go in my CPU, others might want to use avx512, vnni256
        # or even vnni512 instead
        make -C src build nnue=yes pure=yes embed=yes numa=no lto=yes extra=yes
        install -Dm0755 src/cfish -t /app/bin
    sources:
      - type: git
        url: https://github.com/syzygy1/Cfish.git
        commit: b5576f28b82828143fad03b52d3f041240204d6c
      - type: file
        path: nn-c2fd094bce06.nnue
        sha256: c2fd094bce06942e882a7526a7443007a511ed5ee256613cf3a60a9f4ac744e8
```

This will give us a binary called `cfish` that has an embedded NNUE network in it
which guarantees it will always work, as long as you have a CPU that supports the

> instructions enabled by `bmi2`, people with more modern CPUs might want to go even

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instructions enabled by `bmi2. If you have a more modern CPU you might want to go even
```

further and enable AVX512 or even VNNI by changing `x86-64-bmi2` to the correct

> value, the Makefile in the src/ directory of the repo contains all the possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
value. The Makefile in the src/ directory of the repo contains all the possible
```

values.

### Wrapping up

> We have packaged a Chess GUI Interface for Leela, Leela itself, a very strong
> Neural Network weights file for Leela to use, an engine that uses a different
> kind of Neural Network that is meant for CPU users we can wrap it up here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article we have packaged a Chess GUI Interface for Leela, Leela itself, a very strong
Neural Network weights file for Leela to use and an engine that uses a different
kind of Neural Network that is meant for CPU users.
```
